---
title: "Rust 2019: Thoughts From a Working Programmer"
date: 2018-01-13T14:08:15Z
draft: true
tags:
  - rust
  - 2019
  - proposal
  - standard
  - cognition
categories:
    - blog
comments: true
markup: "mmark"
---

I've been working full time programming in Rust for almost a year now (It
always amazes me how time flies) so this year I finally feel both qualified and
knowledgeable enough about Rust, its ecosystem, where it excels, and its
shortcomings to be able to write a blog post about all this. For a last bit of
context, I've been programming in Rust for about 2-3 years now, having migrated
from being a die-hard C99 programmer, and I've been working as a Systems &
Infrastructure Engineer at [Standard Cognition][standard] for about 9 months; I
mostly work on video stuff, think hundreds of 4K streams in parallel. So,
without further ado, here's my proposal for Rust 2019.

## Rust 2019: Cleanup Time![^1]

Over the last couple years Rust has been under quite intense development,
despite the 2015 release, I think Rust only truly became usable (and in
particular in a professional environment) in the last year or so with the grand
focus on tooling and the growth of the library ecosystem. Far from me, then, to
act like a PL Luddite and complain about the advances in the language itself; I
think the way Rust handles core language changes makes them pretty painless on
top of that. In the rush of the last couple of years, however, quite a few
things have been left half-baked, and my idea is that we take a year to finish
those features, cleanup issues, and maybe revisit how the PR CI works.

### I - Cleanup Issues

I think the thing to do in the first few weeks of 2019 is a team effort to go
over all our 4000+ issues and clean it up. Having such a large number of issues
open makes finding your actual issue (if it exists) harder, mostly because
GitHub's search is garbage, but also because there's archaic things that have
probably been fixed.

Perhaps of secondary importance, and decidedly subjective, I just really do not
like the look of a project with open issues galore, it feels sloppy and/or
poorly maintained[^2]. It's just not a good look in my honest opinion.

Lastly, I think going over the open issues and reviewing/closing them will be
extremely beneficial to the next step of my plan.

### II - Scything RFCs

As I mentioned, during the last few years while a lot of features got out the
door many others were left behind, sometimes with an approved RFC but no
implementation, or with a half-completed implementation. I think the major focus
this year should be regarding finishing these very much wanted and long awaited
features. I'll give an nearly-exhaustive list at the end of the article, but to
list a couple that make my life particularly miserable I really wish
Const-Generics and GAT's were a thing.

While the two examples I just gave are "large" features, there's a number of
smaller things that I just want out the door already. `TryFrom` and `TryInto`
should be stabilized, so should type ascription and so many other small things
that have RFCs going on for quite a while and are already used in the wild.
These smaller features, in particular type ascription is a good example here,
may not be crucial to the language, but they most definitely make using it far,
far more comfortable.

In the same way, and perhaps in parallel, to the process of reviewing the open
issues, we should review the still "open" RFCs, and in particular those that
have already finished their FCP and are just waiting to be implemented.

[^1]: I also considered "Rust 2019: The Wolf," in a reference to Pulp Fiction, and "Rust 2019: The Undertaker."

[^2]: I am, in no way, shape, or form saying this about the Rust project specifically, quite the opposite in fact. My point here concerns the possible thoughts of an uninformed by-passer.
[standard]: https://standard.ai
