---
title: "Thoughts on Karate Kid"
date: 2019-05-15T22:06:00Z
draft: false
tags:
  - essay
  - karate
  - kid
  - thoughts
categories:
    - essay
comments: true
markup: "mmark"
---

Recently a video has surfaced (gone viral) of a young kid, who looks to be about
four or five years old attempting to perform that classic cool "Breaking a slab
of wood kick move." If you have not yet seen it, here it is:

<blockquote class="reddit-card" data-card-created="1559117144"><a href="https://www.reddit.com/r/aww/comments/bnwjar/the_lesson_of_never_giving_up/">The lesson of never giving up!</a> from <a href="http://www.reddit.com/r/aww">r/aww</a></blockquote>
<script async src="//embed.redditmedia.com/widgets/platform.js" charset="UTF-8"></script>

On the few times I've seen it posted on Twitter and Reddit, the overwhelming
reaction from people is extremely emotional, lots of tears. Even after having
watched this a handful of times throughout the week I find myself tearing up
every time. It made me stop and think about the video; why is it so special and
touching?

I feel like the main element of it is not so much the "try, try, and try again"
aspect of it, although same as the proverb, that carries a useful truth, only in
the form of parable. The core element of the video is the unjudging, undying
support from his peers, the instructor, and the parents in the sidelines. I feel
like it is so often that we hold this deep fear of failing, this fear that
failure will lead us to loneliness or isolation, and the video touches us by
appeasing that. How often in adult life do we find ourselves utterly and
completely alone in our struggles? How commonly our shortcomings surface to
frustrate us, and in that frustration catalyze our loneliness?

The display of affection and support in the video gives us a glimpse of what we
could have, if only we did not tax others so heavily, if only the incentive
structures of adult life weren't so twisted. The fact that no one laughs, even
for a split second, even when he cries or seems to lose strength seem almost
uncanny for us. How wonderful would it be if our failures could be met with
comprehension, love, and support rather than with shame, pressure, and
negativity.

While watching the video I was immediately transported to one of the strongest
memories of my childhood, one of taking a math test in early middle school. To
this day I am still not sure whether I was terrified of mathematics because I
wasn't good at it, or whether I wasn't good at mathematics because I was
terrified of it, but nonetheless my reality as a kid was surrounded by an
overwhelming fear of failing, and my math class was the center point of that
anxiety, which was exacerbated by my mother's punitive approach to incentive. I
remember taking this midterm, and feeling utterly and completely stupid, it made
little sense to me and I couldn't handle it; I remember the thoughts of all the
things I'd have to endure for doing poorly on it circling my mind: I'd be
grounded, I'd lose computer privileges, I wouldn't be able to see my friends
until the next exam I excelled at, and so on.

As the clock ticked these thoughts grew into
a cacophony too large for me to handle it, and I broke down crying. I was
dragged out of the room by the teacher and sent to the principals' office, and
I don't remember much of what happened afterwards. What I do remember were the
laughs of all my classmates, and the shaming and ridicule I had to endure for
that throughout the next few terms in school. It took me years to regain my
academic confidence, it only happened when I was 19; some 14 years after the
event.

Watching the support of his peers, and their excitement upon his success, made
me think deeply about how differently my life would be today had I received that
during my childhood, and during my failures. On the same note it caused me to
think about how much better my childhood would have been had I had supportive
and understanding parents[^1]. I would only feel like _anyone_ had my back
towards the end of high school, and I did not feel that with my parents until
college.

It is ironic in some ways that it is in failure that we find ourselves the most
alone, whereas it is in success that we feel loved and supported. We should
strive to be better, to support those around us in their moments of weakness as
well as in their triumphs; to help our children gain confidence, something many
of us only experience far too late in life. We all deserve to try, try, and try
again without fear.

[^1]: My parents would become increasingly supportive as I grew. Now, at 21, they are my bedrock; I am only able to take the risks I do today and to chase my objectives because of them, and because of how they've grown in this regard. I cannot be thankful enough to them for the safety they have given me in the past years.
